https://www.evvm.info/docs/intro
Introduction
What is an Abstract Blockchain?
An abstract blockchain decouples blockchain infrastructure from physical implementation, opening possibilities that weren't viable before. Think of it as having your own blockchain without the headache of managing validators, nodes, and physical infrastructure.

EVVM enables "virtual blockchains" to live securely on top of host blockchains, like having a virtual machine (VM) for blockchains.

Revolutionary Architecture
Virtual Blockchain Infrastructure
Infrastructure Decoupling: Separate blockchain logic from physical infrastructure requirements
Host Blockchain Security: Virtual blockchains inherit security from the underlying host network
Zero Infrastructure Overhead: Get blockchain benefits without managing physical infrastructure
Instant Deployment: Launch blockchain environments without complex setup procedures
Vertical Scalability
Multiple Virtual Blockchains: One or several EVVMs can operate on a single host blockchain
Unprecedented Scaling: Achieve incredible vertical scalability through virtualization
Resource Optimization: Efficient utilization of host blockchain resources
Gasless Communication
Fishing Spot System: Any communication medium that can transmit data can serve as a fishing spot
Unlimited Channels: Traditional APIs, messaging systems, radio waves, or any data transmission method
Flexible Input Reception: Any medium capable of receiving and processing transaction inputs
Cost Elimination: Zero gas fees for transactions transmitted through alternative communication channels
Target Audience
For Organizations and Protocols
EVVM enables any organization to leverage blockchain technology, including protocols, enterprises, banks, public sector, and many others:

Custom On-Chain Infrastructure: Implement your own blockchain rules and optimizations
Blockchain-as-a-Service: Access blockchain functionality without infrastructure management
Flexible Implementation: Adapt blockchain technology to any specific requirements
Operational Simplicity: Gain blockchain benefits without technical complexity
For Developers
EVVM is your new superpower with three development approaches:

1. Deploy Your Own EVVM
Create your own isolated, custom blockchain environment

2. Build Within an EVVM
Collaborate in larger, existing blockchain ecosystems

3. Experiment Without Limits
Use EVVM as a testing ground for future technologies

EIP Innovation Laboratory
Ethereum Improvement Proposal Testing: Test cutting-edge EIPs in controlled environments
New Opcode Experimentation: Experiment with new opcodes and functions
Real-World Validation: Validate proposals before mainnet deployment
Ecosystem Acceleration: Accelerate innovation for the entire Web3 ecosystem
Core Ecosystem Components
EVVM Core Contract
The central payment processing and token management hub that implements:

Dual-Track Payment System: Optimized paths for stakers and non-stakers
Token Abstractions: Internal token representations using EIP-191 signatures
Cross-Chain Integration: Seamless asset transfers through Fisher Bridge
Administrative Tools: Time-delayed governance and security controls
Name Service
Human-readable identity system providing:

Username Registration: Secure, blockchain-based identity registration
Custom Metadata: Extensible metadata system for usernames
Payment Integration: Username-based payments across the ecosystem
Administrative Governance: Decentralized governance for system management
Staking System
Principal token staking infrastructure featuring:

Reward Distribution: Era-based rewards with deflationary mechanisms
Enhanced Access: Priority processing and additional rewards for stakers
Governance Participation: Staker involvement in system decisions
Cross-System Integration: Staking benefits across all EVVM components
Fisher Bridge
Cross-chain infrastructure enabling:

Multi-Chain Withdrawals: Secure asset transfers to external blockchains
Operator Network: Decentralized bridge operators with incentive systems
Security Limits: Configurable withdrawal limits and safety mechanisms
Fee Integration: Comprehensive fee and reward distribution system
Key Innovations
Token Architecture
Internal Abstractions: Tokens as internal representations, not separate contracts
Permission-less Integration: Services integrate without special approvals
Signature-Based Authorization: EIP-191 signatures for all operations
Cross-Environment Compatibility: Seamless operation across different EVVM instances
Economic Model
Principal Token System: Deflationary tokenomics with era-based transitions
Staker Incentives: Enhanced rewards and priority access for token holders
Dynamic Fee Structure: Market-based pricing with user control
Cross-Chain Economics: Integrated economic model spanning multiple blockchains
Security Framework
Cryptographic Authorization: EIP-191 signatures for all critical operations
Time-Delayed Governance: Protection against malicious changes
Multi-Layer Validation: Comprehensive security across all system interactions
Replay Protection: Nonce-based systems preventing duplicate transactions
The Future of Web3
EVVM offers:

Custom Blockchain Environments: Deploy tailored solutions without infrastructure overhead
Vertical Scalability: Multiple abstract blockchains on single host networks
Gasless Communication: Revolutionary methods eliminating gas fees for certain operations
Innovation Laboratory: Real-world testing ground for Web3's future
Get Started Today
Ready to deploy your own EVVM abstract blockchain? Our Quickstart Guide provides everything you need to get up and running in minutes:

Interactive Setup Wizard: Automated configuration and deployment
Testnet Deployment: Deploy to Ethereum Sepolia, Arbitrum Sepolia, or custom networks
Complete Ecosystem: All four core contracts deployed and verified automatically
Local Development: Anvil support for local testing and development

https://www.evvm.info/docs/QuickStart
QuickStart
Get up and running with EVVM Testnet Contracts in minutes using our interactive setup wizard. Deploy your EVVM virtual blockchain on your chosen host blockchain network.

Prerequisites
Ensure you have the following installed:

Foundry - Solidity development toolkit (includes forge and cast) Install Foundry
Node.js - For npm dependency management Install Node.js
Git - Version control system Install Git
1. Clone and Install
git clone https://github.com/EVVM-org/Testnet-Contracts
cd Testnet-Contracts
make install

The make install command will:

Install npm dependencies
Compile contracts with IR optimization (--via-ir)
2. Environment Setup
Create your .env file with required API keys:

# Copy the example and fill in your values
cp .env.example .env

Add your configuration:

You can get others in https://chainlist.org/

RPC_URL_ETH_SEPOLIA="https://0xrpc.io/sep"

RPC_URL_ARB_SEPOLIA="https://arbitrum-sepolia.therpc.io"

ETHERSCAN_API=your_etherscan_api_key

3. Secure Key Management
Import your testnet private key securely using Foundry:

cast wallet import defaultKey --interactive

Security Note
This command will prompt you to enter your private key securely. The key will be encrypted and stored locally by Foundry. Never commit real private keys to version control.

4. Interactive Setup & Deployment
Run the automated setup wizard:

./evvm-init.sh

The script will guide you through:

Administrator Configuration
Admin address - Contract administrator with governance privileges
Golden Fisher address - Special sudo-like account with unrestricted golden staking privileges
Activator address - Controls system activation and feature flags
Golden Fisher Privileges
The Golden Fisher is a special account that operates like a "sudo" user in the EVVM staking system:

Direct Staking/Unstaking: Can perform staking and unstaking operations without any limits or restrictions
No Signature Required: Operations are executed directly without signature verification
Bypass All Constraints: Ignores normal staking rules, cooldown periods, and validation requirements
Administrative Control: Intended for system administration and emergency operations
Single Account: Only one Golden Fisher address can be configured per deployment
This account should be secured with the highest level of protection as it has unrestricted access to staking operations.

EVVM Metadata Configuration
EVVM Name - Default: "EVVM" (your virtual blockchain's identity hosted on the selected network)
EVVM ID - Unique identifier for your EVVM instance (multiple EVVMs can be deployed on the same host blockchain)
Principal Token Name - Default: "Mate token" (the core ecosystem token)
Principal Token Symbol - Default: "MATE"
Advanced Configuration (Optional)
Total Supply - Default: 2,033,333,333 × 10¹⁸ (total token economics)
Era Tokens - Default: 1,016,666,666.5 × 10¹⁸ (rewards pool for staking system)
Reward per operation - Default: 5 × 10¹⁸ (base reward for transaction processing)
Principal Token Address Configuration
The principalTokenAddress parameter is not included in the interactive setup wizard as it is an extremely advanced and sensitive configuration option.

If you need to specify a custom principal token address:

Modify the deployment script directly in script/DeployTestnet.s.sol
Update the principalTokenAddress field in the EvvmMetadata struct (currently set to 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000001)
This option should only be used in very specific scenarios and requires deep understanding of the EVVM token architecture.

CRITICAL
Do NOT commit these changes to your repository as they will be discarded immediately

The interactive wizard will prompt you to select a deployment network:

Available Networks
eth - Deploy EVVM on Ethereum Sepolia testnet (host blockchain)
arb - Deploy EVVM on Arbitrum Sepolia testnet (host blockchain) (default)
custom - Deploy EVVM on custom RPC URL (other EVM-compatible host blockchains)
CRITICAL
YOU MUST HAVE TOKENS IN THE NETWORK YOU WANT TO DEPLOY THE CONTRACTS FOR FAUCETS CHECK BELOW

Here is a list of public faucets that you can get the test tokens from: https://ethglobal.com/faucet/

https://cloud.google.com/application/web3/faucet/ethereum/sepolia https://www.alchemy.com/faucets/ethereum-sepolia https://faucets.chain.link/sepolia https://faucet.quicknode.com/ethereum/sepolia https://www.infura.io/zh/faucet/sepolia

https://www.alchemy.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia https://faucets.chain.link/arbitrum-sepolia https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia https://www.l2faucet.com/arbitrum https://learnweb3.io/faucets/arbitrum_sepolia/

Network Configuration
The wizard will automatically handle host blockchain selection and deployment parameters based on your choice. Your EVVM virtual blockchain will be deployed as smart contracts on the selected host blockchain.

note
Error: Not all (5 / 6) contracts were verified!

You will get this error is totally fine, there's a library that's giving errors to verify

5. What Happens Next
The evvm-init.sh script automatically:

Validates Input - Ensures all addresses follow Ethereum format (0x + 40 hex characters) and numbers are valid

Generates Configuration Files in the input/ directory:

address.json - Administrator addresses for system governance
evvmBasicMetadata.json - EVVM identity and principal token metadata
evvmAdvancedMetadata.json - Supply parameters and reward distribution settings
Displays Configuration Summary - Shows all entered values for confirmation

Optional Immediate Deployment - Prompts to deploy contracts right after configuration

Contract Deployment - Deploys the complete EVVM ecosystem on your chosen host blockchain using DeployTestnet.s.sol

Contract Verification - Automatically verifies contracts on the host blockchain's block explorers using Etherscan API

6. Manual Deployment (Alternative)
If you prefer manual control or want to deploy your EVVM virtual blockchain later:

# Deploy EVVM on Ethereum Sepolia (host blockchain)
make deployTestnet NETWORK=eth

# Deploy EVVM on Arbitrum Sepolia (host blockchain) (default)
make deployTestnet NETWORK=arb

# Deploy EVVM on custom EVM-compatible host blockchain
forge script script/DeployTestnet.s.sol:DeployTestnet \
  --rpc-url YOUR_RPC_URL \
  --account defaultKey \
  --broadcast \
  --verify \
  --etherscan-api-key $ETHERSCAN_API \
  -vvvvvv

Local Development
For local testing with Anvil (local host blockchain):

# Start local host blockchain
make anvil

# Deploy EVVM to local host blockchain (in another terminal)
make deployLocalTestnet

7. Verify Your Deployment
After deployment, check the broadcast/ directory for:

Transaction receipts - Detailed transaction information from the host blockchain
Deployed contract addresses - EVVM contract addresses on the host blockchain network
Gas usage reports - Deployment cost analysis on the host blockchain
What Gets Deployed
The EVVM virtual blockchain ecosystem consists of five main smart contracts deployed on your chosen host blockchain:

Evvm.sol - Core virtual machine implementation with payment processing
NameService.sol - Domain name resolution and identity system
Staking.sol - Token staking, rewards mechanism, and fisher registration
Estimator.sol - Staking rewards estimation and calculation system
Treasury.sol - Asset deposit and withdrawal system between EVVM and host blockchains
Understanding Your Deployment
Transaction Flow - Learn how transactions are processed in your EVVM virtual blockchain
Payment Functions - Explore available payment operations within the virtual blockchain
Staking Operations - Understand staking functionality on your deployed EVVM
8. Register Your EVVM in the Registry
After successfully deploying your EVVM virtual blockchain, you need to register it in the Registry EVVM Contract to obtain an official EVVM ID that other services can use to discover and interact with your deployment.

Why Register Your EVVM?
The Registry EVVM Contract serves as the central directory for all EVVM deployments across testnets:

Official Recognition: Get an official EVVM ID for your virtual blockchain
Service Discovery: Allow other dApps and services to find your EVVM instance
Network Integration: Enable integration with EVVM ecosystem tools and services
Verification: Prove your deployment is legitimate and properly configured
Registration Process
Public Registration (Recommended)
For most deployments, use the public registration function which automatically assigns IDs starting from 1000:

Call the Registry Contract: Use the registerEvvm() function on the Registry EVVM Contract
Provide Your Details:
chainId: The testnet chain ID where you deployed (e.g., 11155111 for Sepolia, 421614 for Arbitrum Sepolia)
evvmAddress: Your deployed EVVM contract address from the broadcast/DeployTestnet.s.sol/[chainId]/run-latest.json file
Receive Your ID: The contract will assign you a unique EVVM ID (1000+) automatically
Registry Contract Location
🔗 Official Registry EVVM Contract: View on Etherscan

Proxy Address: 0x389dC8fb09211bbDA841D59f4a51160dA2377832
Implementation: 0xC1ef02492F1A75bCdB20766B558f10D643f9d504
Network: Ethereum Sepolia Testnet
Pattern: EIP-1967 Transparent Proxy
CRITICAL REQUIREMENTS
MANDATORY FOR ALL DEPLOYMENTS: Regardless of which host blockchain you deployed your EVVM on (Sepolia, Arbitrum Sepolia, or any other testnet), you MUST register on the official Registry EVVM Contract located on Ethereum Sepolia.

ETH Sepolia Required: You need ETH Sepolia tokens to pay for the registration transaction gas fees, even if your EVVM is deployed on a different testnet.

Get ETH Sepolia tokens from these faucets:

Ethereum Global Faucet
Google Cloud Faucet
Alchemy Sepolia Faucet
Chainlink Sepolia Faucet
Example Registration Call
```solidity
// Find EVVM instances by ID
RegistryEvvm registry = RegistryEvvm(0x389dC8fb09211bbDA841D59f4a51160dA2377832);
Metadata memory evvmData = registry.getEvvmIdMetadata(1000); // Public EVVM ID


Finding Your EVVM Contract Address
After deployment, find your EVVM contract address in the broadcast files:

# Navigate to your deployment broadcast directory
cd broadcast/DeployTestnet.s.sol/[CHAIN_ID]/

# Check the run-latest.json file for your EVVM contract address
cat run-latest.json | grep -A 5 '"contractName": "Evvm"'


Look for the contractAddress field in the transaction that deployed the "Evvm" contract.

Prerequisites for Registration
Before registering, ensure:

✅ ETH Sepolia Tokens: You have ETH Sepolia for gas fees (required even if your EVVM is on different testnet)
✅ Chain ID Whitelisted: The testnet chain ID where your EVVM is deployed must be whitelisted by the Registry superUser
✅ Unique Address: Your EVVM address hasn't been registered before on that specific chain
✅ Valid Deployment: Your EVVM contract is properly deployed and verified on your chosen testnet
✅ Correct Network: You're connected to Ethereum Sepolia network in your wallet for the registration transaction
Step-by-Step Registration Process
Switch to Ethereum Sepolia: Configure your wallet to connect to Ethereum Sepolia network
Get ETH Sepolia: Obtain testnet ETH from the faucets listed above
Find Your EVVM Address: Locate your deployed EVVM contract address in the broadcast files
Call Registry Contract: Execute the registerEvvm() function with your details
Verify Registration: Confirm your EVVM ID was assigned successfully
Whitelisted Testnets
Currently supported testnet chain IDs for EVVM registration:

Ethereum Sepolia: 11155111
Arbitrum Sepolia: 421614
Remember: The registration happens on Ethereum Sepolia, but you can register EVVMs deployed on any whitelisted testnet. If your deployment testnet isn't listed, contact the EVVM team to request chain ID whitelisting.

Using Your EVVM ID
Once registered, your EVVM ID can be used by:

Frontend Applications: To connect to your specific EVVM instance
Service Integration: For Name Service, Staking, and Treasury operations
dApp Development: To target your virtual blockchain in smart contracts
Network Tools: For monitoring, analytics, and developer tools
Verification
After registration, verify your EVVM is properly registered:

// Get your EVVM metadata
Metadata memory metadata = registry.getEvvmIdMetadata(myEvvmId);

// Verify it matches your deployment
assert(metadata.chainId == YOUR_CHAIN_ID);
assert(metadata.evvmAddress == YOUR_EVVM_ADDRESS);


You can also verify through the Registry's getter functions:

getEvvmIdMetadata(uint256 evvmID): Get registration details for your EVVM ID
getPublicEvvmIdActive(): See all public EVVM IDs (including yours)
isAddressRegistered(uint256 chainId, address evvmAddress): Confirm your address is registered
Reserved IDs
EVVM IDs 1-999 are reserved for official deployments managed by the superUser. Public registrations receive IDs starting from 1000. Do not attempt to register with reserved IDs.

9. Next Steps
View deployment artifacts in broadcast/ directory
Check contract verification on the host blockchain's block explorer (Etherscan/Arbiscan)
Register your EVVM in the Registry EVVM Contract to get an official ID
Test your contracts using the provided test suite: make test
Monitor gas usage and optimize if needed: make seeSizes
Compile contracts for development: make compile
Ready to Build Services?
With your EVVM virtual blockchain deployed, you can now create smart contract services that leverage the EVVM ecosystem:

How to Make a EVVM Service - Complete guide to building smart contracts within your EVVM instance
Learn about dual signature patterns, fisher incentives, and service integration
Connect your contracts to existing services like Name Service and Staking
Implement gasless transactions through the fisher network
10. Available Commands
Run make help to see all available commands:

make install          # Install dependencies and compile EVVM contracts
make compile          # Compile EVVM contracts with IR optimization
make anvil           # Run Anvil local host blockchain
make deployLocalTestnet    # Deploy EVVM to local Anvil host blockchain
make deployTestnet NETWORK=<eth|arb>  # Deploy EVVM to public host blockchains
make seeSizes        # View EVVM contract sizes


11. Explore the EVVM Ecosystem
Once your EVVM virtual blockchain contracts are deployed and registered on your chosen host blockchain, explore the complete EVVM documentation:

Core System Documentation
Transaction Processing - Learn how transactions flow through the EVVM ecosystem
EVVM Core Contract - Understand payment processing and token management
Staking System - Token staking, rewards, and fisher registration
Name Service - Username registration and identity resolution
Advanced Features
Treasury Operations - Host blockchain to EVVM deposits and withdrawals
Creating EVVM Services - Build smart contract services within your EVVM instance
Signature Structures - EIP-191 signature specifications for all services
Registry System
Registry EVVM - Central registry for EVVM deployments and ID management
Public Registration - How to register your EVVM instance
Registry Governance - Time-delayed governance system
Payment Functions
Single Payments - Basic payment operations
Batch Payments - Multi-payment and dispersal functions
Withdrawal Functions - Move tokens from EVVM virtual blockchain back to host blockchain
Key Concepts
Nonce Types - Synchronous vs asynchronous transaction ordering
Staking Functions - Complete staking operation guide
Name Service Functions - Username and metadata management
Need Help?
Configuration files - Review input/ directory if you need to modify settings
Environment setup - Check .env.example for required variables
Documentation - Explore the comprehensive sections above
Local testing - Use make anvil and make deployLocalTestnet for local host blockchain development
Abstract Blockchain Concepts - Start with the Introduction to understand EVVM's revolutionary virtual blockchain architecture
That's it! You now have a fully deployed and verified EVVM virtual blockchain environment running on your chosen host blockchain, ready for development and testing. Explore the ecosystem documentation to build powerful applications on the world's first abstract blockchain hosted on EVM-compatible networks.

https://www.evvm.info/docs/ProcessOfATransaction

Process of a Transaction in EVVM
To understand how a transaction works in the EVVM (Ethereum Virtual Virtual Machine) ecosystem, we must first examine its process. EVVM uses an abstract blockchain architecture where transactions are processed through a unique fisher-based validation and execution system.

Transaction Process

The process is divided into three main stages:

Transaction Creation & Signing: The user creates and signs the transaction with EIP-191 standard.

Fisher Capture & Validation: Fishers capture transactions from fishing spots and validate their authenticity.

Execution & Rewards: The transaction is executed in EVVM, and rewards are distributed to fishers and stakers.

Each stage is detailed below.

Transaction Creation & Signing
In this first stage, the user constructs and signs their transaction using the EIP-191 standard:

1. Transaction Payload Construction
The user creates the transaction payload, which includes:

Sender Address: The address of the user initiating the transaction.
Function Parameters: The specific variables and data required by the target EVVM function or service.
Nonces: Both EVVM nonces (sync/async) and service-specific nonces for replay protection.
Priority Fees: Optional fees to incentivize fishers for faster processing.
2. EIP-191 Signature Generation
The user signs the transaction using the EIP-191 standard, which ensures cryptographic authenticity:

signature = sign(keccak256("\x19Ethereum Signed Message:\n" + len(message) + message))


The message typically contains concatenated parameters like function selectors, amounts, addresses, and nonces.

3. Broadcast to Fishing Spot
Once signed, the user broadcasts the transaction to a fishing spot, which can be:

Public Mempool: Transaction broadcasted to blockchain mempools (e.g., Ethereum mainnet)
Private APIs: Direct submission to fisher-operated APIs
Communication Channels: Any medium where fishers monitor for transactions
Gas Parameters for Mempool Transactions
When broadcasting to public mempools, use these parameters to ensure the transaction remains unfisherered until captured by fishers:

g
a
s
=
(
l
e
n
g
t
h
O
f
T
e
x
t
2
)
16
+
21000
m
a
x
F
e
e
P
e
r
G
a
s
=
1
 
g
w
e
i
m
a
x
P
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
F
e
e
P
e
r
G
a
s
=
0.0000001
 
g
w
e
i
gas=( 
2
lengthOfText
​
 )16+21000
maxFeePerGas=1 gwei
maxPriorityFeePerGas=0.0000001 gwei
These low gas parameters prevent immediate execution, allowing fishers to capture and validate the transaction first.

Fisher Capture & Validation
In this stage, fishers monitor fishing spots and capture user transactions for validation and execution:

1. Transaction Capture
Fishers actively monitor various fishing spots to capture transactions:

Mempool Monitoring: Scanning blockchain mempools for EVVM transactions
API Listening: Receiving transactions through private APIs
Direct Submission: Users can submit transactions directly to specific fishers
2. Comprehensive Validation
Before execution, fishers perform thorough validation:

EIP-191 Signature Verification
Fishers verify each EIP-191 signature to ensure transaction authenticity
Multiple signatures may be required depending on the function (EVVM + service signatures)
Invalid signatures result in transaction rejection
Nonce Verification
Synchronous Nonces: Must be the next sequential nonce for the user
Asynchronous Nonces: Must not be previously used (prevents replay attacks)
Service-specific nonces (e.g., NameService, Staking) are verified separately
Balance & Authorization Checks
Sender must have sufficient token balance for the transaction
Required permissions and access rights are validated
Service-specific requirements (e.g., staking status, username ownership) are checked
3. Fisher Requirements
Fishers can be any address, but stakers receive enhanced rewards
Some services require fishers to be stakers for execution privileges
Fishers bear the gas costs of transaction execution on the host blockchain
Execution & Rewards
In the final stage, validated transactions are executed in EVVM and rewards are distributed:

1. EVVM Execution
Once validated, the transaction is executed in the EVVM (Ethereum Virtual Virtual Machine):

Function Calls: The target EVVM function or service function is invoked
State Updates: Contract states are updated according to the transaction logic
Token Transfers: Required payments, fees, and transfers are processed
Event Emissions: Transaction events are logged for tracking and verification
2. Reward Distribution System
The EVVM ecosystem incentivizes fishers and stakers through a comprehensive reward system:

Base Rewards for Stakers
EVVM Contract Rewards: Stakers receive base MATE token rewards for executing EVVM functions
Service Rewards: Additional rewards from services like NameService, Staking Contract, etc.
Enhanced Amounts: Stakers often receive multiplied reward amounts compared to non-stakers
Priority Fee Distribution
User-Paid Fees: Optional priority fees paid by users go directly to the executing fisher
Incentive Mechanism: Higher priority fees encourage faster transaction processing
Flexible Payments: Users can choose to pay priority fees for expedited service
Service-Specific Rewards
Different services provide varying reward structures:

NameService: Rewards for registration, renewal, and offer processing
Staking Contract: Enhanced rewards for staking-related operations
Treasury Operations: Rewards for deposit and withdrawal processing
P2P Swap: Fees from peer-to-peer trading operations
3. Reward Requirements
Staker Verification: Only verified stakers receive enhanced rewards
Successful Execution: Rewards are only distributed upon successful transaction completion
Gas Coverage: Fishers must cover host blockchain gas costs, which are typically offset by rewards
4. Multi-Service Coordination
EVVM supports complex transactions involving multiple services:

Cross-Service Operations: Single transactions can interact with multiple EVVM services
Coordinated Rewards: Reward distribution accounts for all services involved
Atomic Execution: Either all operations succeed, or the entire transaction reverts
This reward system creates a sustainable ecosystem where users pay for services, fishers are incentivized to validate and execute transactions, and stakers receive enhanced rewards for their commitment to the network.


https://www.evvm.info/docs/category/evvm-core-contract

EVVM Core Contract
The EVVM Core Contract serves as the central hub for payment processing and token management in the abstract blockchain ecosystem. It implements dual-track payment systems for stakers and non-stakers, manages synchronous and asynchronous transaction nonces, handles cross-chain withdrawals through integrated bridging solutions, and coordinates with all ecosystem services including Name Service, Staking, and Treasury operations. This contract is the foundation that enables EVVM's revolutionary virtual blockchain architecture with fisher-based validation and reward distribution.

📄️ Introduction to the EVVM Core Contract
The EVVM (Ethereum Virtual Virtual Machine) Core Contract serves as the central payment processing and token management hub for the EVVM ecosystem. This smart contract implements core functionalities including payment systems, staker rewards, cross-chain operations, and administrative tools.

📄️ Nonce Types in EVVM
The EVVM system implements two distinct nonce mechanisms for payment functions: sync and async. Understanding these nonce types is essential for developers interfacing with the EVVM contract, as they serve different purposes and behave in significantly different ways.

🗃️ Payment Functions
Learn about EVVM payment functions

📄️ Getter Functions
This section details all available getter functions in the EVVM contract, providing comprehensive information about the contract's state, configuration, and user data.

📄️ Administrative Functions
This section covers all administrative functions in the EVVM contract, including system configuration, governance, and access control mechanisms. These functions implement time-delayed governance for critical system changes to ensure security and allow for community review.

📄️ Identity Resolution Functions
The EVVM contract integrates with the NameService to provide identity-based payment functionality, allowing users to send payments to human-readable usernames instead of complex addresses. This section covers the identity resolution system and NameService integration.

📄️ Economic System Functions
The EVVM ecosystem implements a sophisticated economic system with deflationary tokenomics, reward distribution, and era-based transitions. This section covers the economic functions that manage token supply, rewards, and the evolution of the system's monetary policy.

📄️ Staking Integration Functions
The EVVM contract integrates closely with the staking system to manage staker status, privileges, and rewards. This integration enables enhanced functionality for MATE token stakers while maintaining secure access control and reward distribution.

📄️ Proxy Management Functions
The EVVM contract uses a sophisticated proxy pattern with time-delayed upgrades to ensure security and allow for community review of critical system changes. This section covers all proxy-related functions for implementation management.

📄️ Treasury Functions
The EVVM contract includes specialized functions that can only be called by the authorized Treasury contract. These functions provide controlled access to user balance management for treasury operations such as deposits, withdrawals, and automated distributions.


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/Introduction

Introduction to the EVVM Core Contract
The EVVM (Ethereum Virtual Virtual Machine) Core Contract serves as the central payment processing and token management hub for the EVVM ecosystem. This smart contract implements core functionalities including payment systems, staker rewards, cross-chain operations, and administrative tools.

Core Contract Functions
Payment Processing
The EVVM Core Contract implements a unified payment system with automatic staker detection:

Unified Payment Function (pay): Single payment function that automatically detects executor staker status
Automatic Staker Benefits: Staker executors receive priority fees and MATE token rewards automatically
Nonce Management: Synchronous and asynchronous processing options via priorityFlag parameter
Batch Operations: Multi-payment processing through payMultiple and dispersePay functions
Contract Payments: Administrative payment functions (caPay, disperseCaPay)
Token Management
Token Abstractions: Internal token representations using EIP-191 signatures
Balance Management: Principal balances, reward balances, and cross-chain reserves
Transfer Authorization: Signature-based validation for all token operations
System Integration
Name Service: Identity resolution for username-based payments
Staking Coordination: Principal token staking and reward distribution
Fisher Bridge: Cross-chain withdrawal and deposit operations
Administrative Functions
Governance System: Time-delayed administrative changes
Security Controls: Multi-layer validation and replay protection
Proxy Architecture: Upgradeable contract design with implementation changes
Payment System Architecture
Unified Payment Processing
The pay Function
Automatic Staker Detection: Determines executor staker status during execution without requiring separate functions
Conditional Rewards: Staker executors automatically receive MATE token rewards and priority fees
Universal Access: Available to all users - staker benefits are applied automatically based on executor status
Simplified Integration: Single function handles all payment scenarios, reducing complexity for developers
Nonce Management System
Synchronous Processing (priorityFlag = false)
Automatic nonce increment for ordered transactions
Guaranteed transaction sequence
Simplified transaction management
Asynchronous Processing (priorityFlag = true)
Custom nonce management for transaction ordering
Multiple transactions can be prepared simultaneously
Replay protection prevents duplicate transaction execution
Advanced Payment Features
Batch Payment Processing
Multiple Payments (payMultiple)
Execute multiple individual payments in one transaction
Partial success handling with detailed result reporting
Individual validation for each payment
Distribution Payments (dispersePay)
Distribute from one sender to multiple recipients
All-or-nothing execution for consistency
Support for both direct addresses and Name Service identities
Contract-to-Address Payments
Administrative Payments (caPay)
Smart contracts can execute payments without token approvals
Direct integration for contract-based operations
Automated distributions for system-level operations
Contract Distribution (disperseCaPay)
Multi-recipient distributions from contracts
Designed for protocol-level operations
Parameter validation for token amounts
Economic Model and Tokenomics
Principal Token System
The principal token drives the contract's economic model:

Era Transitions: Reward halving when supply thresholds are reached
Base Rewards: Fixed principal token amounts for transaction processing
Staker Incentives: Additional rewards for principal token holders who stake
Random Bonuses: Era transition triggers provide lottery-style rewards (1-5083x)
Fee Structure
Priority Fees: Optional fees for faster processing
Staker Distribution: Priority fees distributed to transaction processors
Cross-Chain Fees: Fees for Fisher Bridge withdrawal and deposit operations
Dynamic Limits: Withdrawal limits adjustable through governance
Security Architecture
Signature Verification
EIP-191 Standard: All transactions require cryptographic signatures
Replay Protection: Nonce-based system prevents duplicate transactions
Parameter Integrity: Signatures cover all critical transaction parameters
Governance System
Time-Delayed Changes: 30-day delay for proxy implementation changes, 1-day for administrative updates
Community Protection: All changes visible before execution
Emergency Controls: Admin can reject problematic proposals
Token Architecture
Token Abstraction System
EVVM implements internal token abstractions instead of traditional ERC-20 contracts:

Internal Representations: Tokens exist as abstractions within EVVM
Signature-Based Authorization: All transfers authorized through EIP-191 signatures
Input Validation: Signatures validated against exact function parameters
Balance Management
Principal Balances: Direct token holdings managed by core contract
Reward Balances: Accumulated principal token rewards from staking and system participation
Cross-Chain Reserves: Tokens locked for Fisher Bridge operations
Pending Withdrawals: Balances reserved for cross-chain withdrawal processing
Integration Capabilities
Name Service Integration
Username Payments: Convert usernames to wallet addresses automatically
Identity Resolution: Support both direct addresses and Name Service identities
Validation Layer: Verification of identity ownership and validity
Cross-Chain Bridge Integration
Withdrawal System: Multi-chain support for token withdrawals
Security Limits: Configurable withdrawal limits for different tokens
Operator Incentives: Bridge operators receive fees and rewards
Execution Methods
The EVVM supports two execution approaches:

Direct Execution
User-Initiated: Users interact directly with the EVVM contract
Immediate Processing: Transactions submitted directly to the blockchain
Full Control: Complete autonomy over transaction timing and parameters
Fisher Execution
Fishing Spot Integration: Users submit transactions through the fishing spot system
Fisher Processing: Specialized fisher nodes capture and execute transactions
Optimized Routing: Fishers handle transaction optimization and gas management
The EVVM Core Contract provides comprehensive payment processing, token management, and administrative functionality as the central infrastructure component of the EVVM ecosystem.


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/NonceTypes

Nonce Types in EVVM
The EVVM system implements two distinct nonce mechanisms for payment functions: sync and async. Understanding these nonce types is essential for developers interfacing with the EVVM contract, as they serve different purposes and behave in significantly different ways.

Sync Nonce
Definition and Behavior
The sync nonce is a consecutive counter that increments sequentially by one each time a payment transaction is executed. This mechanism closely resembles the standard nonce implementation used in Ethereum transactions.

Key Characteristics:
Sequential Incrementing: Each successful transaction increases the nonce value by exactly one unit.
Transaction Ordering: Ensures transactions are processed in the order they were issued.
Replay Protection: Prevents transaction replay attacks by requiring each transaction to have a unique nonce value.
Predictability: The next valid nonce is always the current nonce value plus one.
Use Cases:
Standard payment operations where transaction order matters
Operations that require deterministic processing sequence
Situations where transaction dependencies exist
Services that rely on deterministic payment processing
Sync Nonce

Async Nonce
Definition and Behavior
The async nonce is a non-consecutive number that is user-generated and transaction-specific. Unlike the sync nonce, async nonces do not follow a predetermined sequence and can be any valid number chosen by the user.

Key Characteristics:
Non-sequential: Numbers don't need to follow any particular order or sequence.
Uniqueness Per Address: Each async nonce can only be used once per address.
User-defined: Users can generate their own nonce values, providing flexibility in transaction preparation.
Parallelism: Multiple transactions can be prepared independently without knowledge of other pending transactions.
Use Cases:
Parallel transaction processing
Delayed execution scenarios
Batch transaction preparation without dependency on execution order
Systems where transaction preparation and submission might happen on different timelines
Async Nonce

https://www.evvm.info/docs/category/payment-functions

Payment Functions
Learn about EVVM payment functions

📄️ pay Function
Function Type: external

📄️ payMultiple Function
Function Type: external

📄️ dispersePay Function
Function Type: external

📄️ caPay Function
Function Type: external

📄️ disperseCaPay Function
Function Type: external

🗃️ Legacy Single Payment Functions
All Legacy single payment functions in the EVVM contract


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/pay

pay Function
Function Type: external
Function Signature: pay(address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,uint256,bool,address,bytes)

The pay function is the primary payment processor in the EVVM ecosystem, enabling single payments with intelligent staker detection and reward distribution. This function automatically detects whether the executor (msg.sender) is a staker and applies the appropriate logic: stakers receive priority fees and principal token rewards, while non-stakers can still process transactions but without additional benefits.

The function supports both synchronous and asynchronous nonce management through the priorityFlag parameter, making it flexible for various execution patterns and use cases. For details on nonce types, see Nonce Types in EVVM. For signature details, see Payment Signature Structure.

Processes single payments with automatic staker detection and reward distribution. It supports both synchronous and asynchronous nonce management through the priorityFlag parameter, making it flexible for various execution patterns. If the executor (msg.sender) is a staker, they receive priority fees and principal token rewards.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token contract address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Additional fee for transaction priority. If the executor is a staker, they receive this fee as a reward.
nonce	uint256	Transaction nonce value. Usage depends on priorityFlag: if false (sync), this value is ignored and automatic nonce is used.
priorityFlag	bool	Execution type flag: false = synchronous nonce (sequential), true = asynchronous nonce (custom).
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction. Use address(0) to allow any address to execute.
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
note
The nonce parameter usage depends on priorityFlag: when false (synchronous), the nonce is automatically managed and the provided value is ignored; when true (asynchronous), the provided nonce value is used for custom ordering.

Execution Methods
The function can be executed in multiple ways:

Fisher Execution
A user signs the payment details and sends the request (parameters + signature) to a fishing spot.
A fisher (preferably a staker for rewards) captures the transaction and validates the request.
The fisher submits the transaction to the function for processing and receives rewards if they are a staker.
Direct Execution
The user or any authorized service directly calls the pay function.
If an executor address is specified, only that address can submit the transaction.
If executor is set to address(0), anyone can execute the transaction with a valid signature.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
Signature Verification: Validates the signature against the from address and other parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. For synchronous payments (priorityFlag = false), uses nextSyncUsedNonce[from] as the nonce; for asynchronous payments (priorityFlag = true), uses the provided nonce parameter. Reverts with InvalidSignature on failure.
Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. Reverts with SenderIsNotTheExecutor if they don't match.
Asynchronous Nonce Verification: For asynchronous payments only (priorityFlag = true), checks if the provided nonce has already been used for the from address by consulting the asyncUsedNonce mapping. Reverts with InvalidAsyncNonce if the nonce has already been used.
Resolve Recipient Address: Determines the final recipient address:
If to_identity is provided (not empty), resolves the identity to an owner address using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService contract.
If to_identity is empty, uses the provided to_address.
Balance Update: Executes the payment transfer using the _updateBalance function, sending amount of token from the from address to the resolved recipient address. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Staker Benefits Distribution: If the executor (msg.sender) is a registered staker:
Priority Fee Transfer: If priorityFee > 0, transfers the priorityFee amount of token from the from address to the msg.sender (executor) as a staker reward.
Principal Token Reward: Grants 1x reward amount in principal tokens to the msg.sender (executor) using the _giveReward function.
Nonce Management: Updates nonce tracking based on execution type:
Asynchronous (priorityFlag = true): Marks the specific nonce as used (true) for the from address in the asyncUsedNonce mapping.
Synchronous (priorityFlag = false): Increments the synchronous nonce counter for the from address to prevent replay attacks.
info
For more information about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/payMultiple




payMultiple Function
Function Type: external
Function Signature: payMultiple((address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,uint256,bool,address,bytes)[]) Returns: (uint256 successfulTransactions, uint256 failedTransactions, bool[] memory results)

Processes multiple payments in a single transaction batch with individual success/failure tracking. Each payment instruction can originate from different senders and supports both staker and non-staker payment types, with comprehensive transaction statistics and detailed results for each operation.

Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
payData	PayData[]	An array of structs, each defining a single payment operation
Return Values
Return Value	Type	Description
successfulTransactions	uint256	Number of payments that completed successfully
failedTransactions	uint256	Number of payments that failed
results	bool[]	Boolean array indicating success/failure for each payment
PayData Struct
Defines the complete set of parameters for a single, independent payment within the batch.

struct PayData {
    address from;
    address to_address;
    string to_identity;
    address token;
    uint256 amount;
    uint256 priorityFee;
    uint256 nonce;
    bool priorityFlag;
    address executor;
    bytes signature;
}

Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Fee amount distributed to stakers as reward (only paid if executor is a staker).
nonce	uint256	Nonce value for transaction ordering and replay protection (interpretation depends on priorityFlag).
priorityFlag	bool	Determines nonce type: true for asynchronous (custom nonce), false for synchronous (sequential nonce).
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction. Use address(0) to allow any address to execute.
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
info
If you want to know more about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

Execution Methods
This function can be executed by any address, with different behavior depending on whether the executor is a staker:

Fisher Execution
A fisher collects multiple authorized PayData structures (with valid signatures) from various users through fishing spots.
The fisher aggregates these into the payData array and submits the transaction.
If the fisher is a staker, they receive priority fees and principal token rewards.
Direct Execution
A user or service constructs the payData array with one or multiple payment requests.
They directly call payMultiple with appropriate authorization.
Staker executors receive priority fees and principal token rewards based on successful transactions.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
The function processes each payment in the payData array independently, allowing partial success:

Initialize Results Array: Creates a boolean array to track individual payment results.

For each payment in the array:

a. Signature Verification: Validates the signature against all payment parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. Uses the appropriate nonce based on priorityFlag. Reverts with InvalidSignature if validation fails.

b. Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. If they don't match, marks the payment as failed and continues to the next payment.

c. Nonce Management: Handles nonce verification and updates based on priorityFlag:

Async (priorityFlag = true): Checks if the custom nonce hasn't been used, then marks it as used. If already used, marks payment as failed.
Sync (priorityFlag = false): Verifies the nonce matches the expected sequential nonce, then increments it. If mismatch, marks payment as failed.
d. Recipient Resolution: Determines the final recipient address:

If to_identity is provided, resolves it using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService.
If to_identity is empty, uses to_address.
e. Balance Verification: Checks if the sender has sufficient balance for both amount and priorityFee. If insufficient, marks payment as failed.

f. Payment Execution: Executes the main transfer using _updateBalance. If the transfer fails, marks payment as failed.

g. Priority Fee Distribution: If the payment succeeded and priorityFee > 0 and the executor is a staker (isAddressStaker(msg.sender)), transfers the priority fee to the executor. If this fails, marks payment as failed.

h. Result Tracking: Updates counters and result array based on payment success/failure.

Staker Rewards: After processing all payments, if the executor is a staker, grants principal token rewards equal to the number of successful transactions using _giveMateReward.

Return Values: Returns the count of successful transactions, failed transactions, and the detailed results array.

note
Each payment is processed independently - failure of one payment doesn't affect others in the batch.

payMultiple Happy Path payMultiple Failed Path


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/caPay

caPay Function
Function Type: external
Function Signature: caPay(address,address,uint256)
Function Selector: 0xc898a6e9

Contract-to-address payment function designed for authorized smart contracts to distribute tokens without signature verification. This function allows registered smart contracts to efficiently transfer tokens using direct balance manipulation, primarily for automated distributions and system payouts.

Key Features
Contract-Only Execution: Only smart contracts (non-EOA addresses) can call this function, verified via bytecode presence
No Signature Required: Bypasses signature verification as authorization is implicit through contract execution
No Nonce Management: Does not use EVVM nonce systems since contracts rely on blockchain transaction nonces
Automated Distributions: Designed for staking rewards, NameService fees, and other automated system payouts
Staker Rewards: Contracts that are registered stakers receive principal token rewards for successful transfers
Parameters
Field	Type	Description
to	address	The recipient's address for the token transfer.
token	address	The token address to transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from the calling contract.
Workflow
Contract Verification: Validates that the caller (msg.sender) is a smart contract by checking its bytecode size using extcodesize. Reverts with NotAnCA if the caller is an Externally Owned Account (EOA).

Balance Update: Executes the token transfer using the _updateBalance function:

Verifies the calling contract has sufficient token balance
Debits the amount from the calling contract's balance
Credits the amount to the recipient's balance
Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed if the transfer fails
Staker Reward: If the calling contract is a registered staker (isAddressStaker(msg.sender)), grants 1 principal token reward using _giveMateReward.

caPay

https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/disperseCaPay

disperseCaPay Function
Function Type: external
Function Signature: disperseCaPay((uint256,address)[],address,uint256) Function Selector: 0xa7a096f6

Contract-to-multiple-addresses payment distribution function that allows authorized smart contracts to distribute tokens to multiple recipients efficiently in a single transaction. This function is optimized for contract-based automated distributions with minimal overhead.

Key Features
Contract-Only Execution: Only smart contracts can call this function, verified via bytecode presence
Direct Address Distribution: Optimized for direct address transfers without identity resolution
Batch Efficiency: Single transaction distributes to multiple recipients with amount validation
No Authorization Overhead: No signature verification or nonce management required
Staker Rewards: Contracts that are registered stakers receive principal token rewards
Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
toData	DisperseCaPayMetadata[]	An array detailing each recipient's address and the amount they should receive. See struct below.
token	address	The token address to distribute.
amount	uint256	The total amount of tokens to distribute across all recipients. Must equal the sum of individual amounts in toData.
DisperseCaPayMetadata Struct
Defines the payment details for a single recipient within the toData array.

struct DisperseCaPayMetadata {
   uint256 amount;
   address toAddress;
}

Field	Type	Description
amount	uint256	The amount of tokens to send to this recipient.
toAddress	address	The recipient's direct wallet address.
Workflow
Contract Verification: Validates that the caller (msg.sender) is a smart contract by checking its bytecode size using extcodesize. Reverts with NotAnCA if the caller is an Externally Owned Account (EOA).

Balance Verification: Checks that the calling contract has sufficient token balance to cover the total distribution amount. Reverts with InsufficientBalance if insufficient.

Balance Deduction: Subtracts the total amount from the calling contract's token balance upfront.

Distribution Loop: Iterates through each recipient in the toData array:

Amount Tracking: Maintains a running total (accumulatedAmount) of distributed amounts
Overflow Check: Validates that accumulated amount doesn't exceed the total amount during iteration
Token Distribution: Adds the specified amount directly to each recipient's balance
Final Amount Validation: Verifies that the total distributed amount exactly matches the specified amount parameter. Reverts with InvalidAmount if there's a mismatch.

Staker Reward: If the calling contract is a registered staker (isAddressStaker(msg.sender)), grants 1 principal token reward using _giveMateReward.

disperseCaPay

https://www.evvm.info/docs/category/legacy-single-payment-functions

Legacy Single Payment Functions
All Legacy single payment functions in the EVVM contract

📄️ Introduction
Important Notice About Implementation Location

📄️ payNoStaker Functions
The payNoStaker functions enable single payments where the transaction executor (msg.sender) is not required to hold staking tokens. This provides a more accessible execution model compared to staking-required payment functions.

📄️ payStaker Functions
The payStaker functions process single payments where the transaction executor (msg.sender) must be a token staker. These functions provide enhanced benefits including priority fee rewards and principal token rewards for stakers who process transactions.


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/SinglePaymentFunctions/Introduction

Introduction
Important Notice About Implementation Location
The single payment functions documented in this section are currently implemented in src/contracts/evvm/EvvmLegacy.sol instead of the main Evvm.sol contract.

Legacy Implementation
This contract includes multiple pay functions, which, although gas efficient, can be complex in code. If you prefer your EVVM to have multiple pay functions, please change the name of the document from EvvmLegacy.sol to Evvm.sol and verify that the services have something similar to this instead of pay.

Background
The EVVM ecosystem provides two approaches for implementing payment functionality:

Simplified Approach (Current Default): Uses a single, unified pay function that handles all payment scenarios through internal logic branching.

Legacy Approach (Multiple Functions): Uses separate, specialized functions for different payment types (payNoStaker_sync, payNoStaker_async, payStaker_sync, payStaker_async).

When to Use Legacy Functions
Consider using the legacy implementation if:

Gas Optimization is Critical: The specialized functions can be more gas-efficient for specific use cases since they avoid conditional logic.
Clear Function Separation: Your application benefits from having distinct function signatures for different payment types.
Integration Requirements: Your existing services are designed to work with multiple specific payment functions.
Migration Process
To use these legacy functions in your EVVM deployment:

Rename the File: Change EvvmLegacy.sol to Evvm.sol in your contract structure.
Update Service Integration: Ensure your services are configured to use the specific function names instead of the generic pay function.
Test Thoroughly: Verify that all payment scenarios work correctly with the specialized functions.
Update Documentation: Make sure your service documentation reflects the use of multiple payment functions.
Function Overview
The legacy implementation provides four main payment functions:

payNoStaker_sync: Synchronous payments for non-stakers
payNoStaker_async: Asynchronous payments for non-stakers
payStaker_sync: Synchronous payments for stakers with rewards
payStaker_async: Asynchronous payments for stakers with rewards
Each function is optimized for its specific use case, providing potentially better gas efficiency at the cost of increased code complexity.

The following documentation covers each of these specialized payment functions in detail.


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/SinglePaymentFunctions/payNoStaker



payNoStaker Functions
The payNoStaker functions enable single payments where the transaction executor (msg.sender) is not required to hold staking tokens. This provides a more accessible execution model compared to staking-required payment functions.

A key characteristic of these functions is that the priorityFee parameter is not utilized in non-staker payments, simplifying the transaction structure for users who don't participate in the staking mechanism.

These functions are available in two variants: synchronous (_sync) for sequential transaction ordering and asynchronous (_async) for flexible transaction ordering. For details on nonce types, see Nonce Types in EVVM. For signature details, see Payment Signature Structure.

payNoStaker_sync
Function Type: external
Function Signature: payNoStaker_sync(address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,address,bytes)
Function Selector: 0x4faa1fa2

Executes a single, synchronous payment without requiring the executor (msg.sender) to hold staking tokens. It uses an implicitly managed synchronous nonce. The executor does not receive the priorityFee or rewards.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Additional fee for transaction priority (not used in non-staker payments).
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction. Use address(0) to allow any address to execute (sender-only restriction removed).
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
note
There is no explicit nonce parameter; the synchronous nonce is automatically managed and validated as part of the signature verification process.

Execution Methods
The function can be executed in two ways:

Fisher Execution
A user signs the payment details and sends the request (parameters + signature) to a fishing spot.
The fisher (who must hold staking) captures the transaction and validates the request.
The fisher submits the transaction to the function for processing.
Direct Execution
The user or any authorized service directly calls the payNoStaker_sync function.
If an executor address is specified, only that address can submit the transaction.
If executor is set to address(0), anyone can execute the transaction with a valid signature.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
Signature Verification: Validates the signature against the from address and other parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. This includes checking that the synchronous nonce matches the expected next nonce for the from address. Reverts with InvalidSignature on failure.
Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. Reverts with SenderIsNotTheExecutor if they don't match.
Resolve Recipient Address: Determines the final recipient address:
If to_identity is provided (not empty), resolves the identity to an owner address using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService contract.
If to_identity is empty, uses the provided to_address.
Balance Update: Executes the payment transfer using the _updateBalance function, sending amount of token from the from address to the resolved recipient address. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Nonce Increment: Increments the synchronous nonce counter for the from address to prevent replay attacks.
info
For more information about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

payNoStaker_sync generic transaction flow

payNoStaker_async
Function Type: external
Function Signature: payNoStaker_async(address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,uint256,address,bytes)
Function Selector: 0xf4e1895b

Executes a single, asynchronous payment without requiring the executor (msg.sender) to hold staking tokens. Asynchronous execution uses an explicit nonce parameter, allowing for out-of-order processing relative to other async transactions from the same sender. The executor does not receive the priorityFee or rewards.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Additional fee for transaction priority (not used in non-staker payments).
nonce	uint256	Custom nonce value for transaction ordering and replay protection.
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction. Use address(0) to allow any address to execute (sender-only restriction removed).
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
Execution Methods
This function can be executed by any address since it doesn't require the executor to hold staking tokens:

Direct Execution
The user or any authorized service directly calls the payNoStaker_async function.
If an executor address is specified, only that address can submit the transaction.
If executor is set to address(0), anyone can execute the transaction with a valid signature.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
Signature Verification: Validates the signature against the from address and other parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. Reverts with InvalidSignature on failure.
Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. Reverts with SenderIsNotTheExecutor if they don't match.
Async Nonce Verification: Checks if the provided nonce has already been used for the from address by consulting the asyncUsedNonce mapping. Reverts with InvalidAsyncNonce if the nonce has already been used.
Resolve Recipient Address: Determines the final recipient address:
If to_identity is provided (not empty), resolves the identity to an owner address using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService contract.
If to_identity is empty, uses the provided to_address.
Balance Update: Executes the payment transfer using the _updateBalance function, sending amount of token from the from address to the resolved recipient address. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Nonce Marking: Marks the specific asynchronous nonce as used (true) for the from address in the asyncUsedNonce mapping to prevent replay attacks.
info
If you want to know more about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

payNoStaker_async generic transaction flow


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/PaymentFunctions/SinglePaymentFunctions/payStaker

payStaker Functions
The payStaker functions process single payments where the transaction executor (msg.sender) must be a token staker. These functions provide enhanced benefits including priority fee rewards and principal token rewards for stakers who process transactions.

Staker benefits include receiving priority fees as rewards for transaction processing and earning principal token rewards upon successful execution. These functions support both direct addresses and identity-based payments through the NameService.

For detailed information on nonce types, please refer to the Nonce Types in EVVM section. The signature structure for these payments is detailed in the Payment Signature Structure section.

payStaker_sync
Function Type: external
Function Signature: payStaker_sync(address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,address,bytes)
Function Selector: 0x4faa1fa2

Processes synchronous payments for principal token stakers with enhanced benefits and rewards. This function provides staker benefits including priority fee rewards and principal token rewards, while using automatic nonce increment for sequential transaction ordering.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Fee amount distributed to stakers as reward for processing the transaction.
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction (must be a staker). Use address(0) to allow any staker to execute.
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
note
There is no explicit nonce parameter; the synchronous nonce is automatically managed and validated as part of the signature verification process.

Execution Methods
This function can only be executed by principal token stakers:

Fisher Execution
A user signs the payment details and sends the request (parameters + signature) to a fishing spot.
The fisher (who must be a registered staker) captures the transaction and validates the request.
The fisher submits the transaction to the function for processing and receives rewards.
Direct Execution
When the executor is a staker user or service:

The staker user/service directly calls the payStaker_sync function.
The executor receives priority fee rewards and principal token rewards for processing.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
Signature Verification: Validates the signature against the from address and other parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. This includes checking that the synchronous nonce matches the expected next nonce for the from address. Reverts with InvalidSignature on failure.
Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. Reverts with SenderIsNotTheExecutor if they don't match.
Staker Verification: Verifies that the msg.sender (executor) is a registered staker using the isAddressStaker function. Reverts with NotAnStaker if msg.sender is not a staker.
Resolve Recipient Address: Determines the final recipient address:
If to_identity is provided (not empty), resolves the identity to an owner address using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService contract.
If to_identity is empty, uses the provided to_address.
Balance Update: Executes the main payment transfer using the _updateBalance function, sending amount of token from the from address to the resolved recipient address. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Priority Fee Distribution: If priorityFee > 0, transfers the priorityFee amount of token from the from address to the msg.sender (executor) as a staker reward. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Principal Token Reward: Grants 1 principal token reward to the msg.sender (executor) using the _giveMateReward function.
Nonce Increment: Increments the synchronous nonce counter for the from address to prevent replay attacks.
info
For more information about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

payStaker_sync generic transaction flow

payStaker_async
Function Type: external
Function Signature: payStaker_async(address,address,string,address,uint256,uint256,uint256,address,bytes)
Function Selector: 0xf4e1895b

Processes asynchronous payments for principal token stakers with enhanced benefits and custom nonce management. This function provides staker benefits including priority fee rewards and principal token rewards, while using custom nonces for flexible transaction ordering and replay protection.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
from	address	The address of the payment sender whose funds are being transferred and whose signature/nonce are validated.
to_address	address	Direct recipient address. Used when to_identity is empty.
to_identity	string	Username/identity of the recipient. If provided, the contract resolves it to an address via the NameService.
token	address	The token contract address for the transfer.
amount	uint256	The quantity of tokens to transfer from from to the recipient.
priorityFee	uint256	Fee amount distributed to stakers as reward for processing the transaction.
nonce	uint256	Custom nonce value for transaction ordering and replay protection.
executor	address	Address authorized to execute this transaction (must be a staker). Use address(0) to allow any staker to execute.
signature	bytes	Cryptographic signature (EIP-191) from the from address authorizing this payment.
Execution Methods
This function can only be executed by principal token stakers:

Fisher Execution
A user signs the payment details and sends the request (parameters + signature) to a fishing spot.
The fisher (who must be a registered staker) captures the transaction and validates the request.
The fisher submits the transaction to the function for processing and receives rewards.
Direct Execution
When the executor is a staker user or service:

The staker user/service directly calls the payStaker_async function.
The executor receives priority fee rewards and principal token rewards for processing.
tip
When using a service as the executor, we recommend specifying the service's address in the executor parameter for additional security.

Workflow
Signature Verification: Validates the signature against the from address and other parameters using verifyMessageSignedForPay. Reverts with InvalidSignature on failure.
Executor Validation: If executor is not address(0), checks that msg.sender matches the executor address. Reverts with SenderIsNotTheExecutor if they don't match.
Staker Verification: Verifies that the msg.sender (executor) is a registered staker using the isAddressStaker function. Reverts with NotAnStaker if msg.sender is not a staker.
Async Nonce Verification: Checks if the provided nonce has already been used for the from address by consulting the asyncUsedNonce mapping. Reverts with InvalidAsyncNonce if the nonce has already been used.
Resolve Recipient Address: Determines the final recipient address:
If to_identity is provided (not empty), resolves the identity to an owner address using verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity from the NameService contract.
If to_identity is empty, uses the provided to_address.
Balance Update: Executes the main payment transfer using the _updateBalance function, sending amount of token from the from address to the resolved recipient address. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Priority Fee Distribution: If priorityFee > 0, transfers the priorityFee amount of token from the from address to the msg.sender (executor) as a staker reward. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on transfer failure.
Principal token Reward: Grants 1 principal token reward to the msg.sender (executor) using the _giveMateReward function. Reverts with UpdateBalanceFailed on failure.
Nonce Marking: Marks the specific asynchronous nonce as used (true) for the from address in the asyncUsedNonce mapping to prevent replay attacks.
info
For more information about the signature structure, refer to the Payment Signature Structure section.

payStaker_async generic transaction flow



https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/Getters

Getter Functions
This section details all available getter functions in the EVVM contract, providing comprehensive information about the contract's state, configuration, and user data.

System Configuration Functions
getEvvmMetadata
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getEvvmMetadata()

Returns the complete EVVM metadata configuration containing system-wide parameters and economic settings.

Return Value
Returns an EvvmMetadata struct containing:

Field	Type	Description
principalTokenAddress	address	Address of the principal token (MATE token)
reward	uint256	Current reward amount per transaction
totalSupply	uint256	Total supply tracking for era transitions
eraTokens	uint256	Era tokens threshold for reward transitions
getNameServiceAddress
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getNameServiceAddress()

Gets the current NameService contract address used for identity resolution in payments.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the integrated NameService contract
getStakingContractAddress
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getStakingContractAddress()

Gets the authorized staking contract address that can modify staker status and receive rewards.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the integrated staking contract
Nonce Management Functions
getNextCurrentSyncNonce
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getNextCurrentSyncNonce(address)

Returns the expected nonce for the next synchronous payment transaction for a specific user.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check sync nonce for
Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Next synchronous nonce value
getIfUsedAsyncNonce
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getIfUsedAsyncNonce(address,uint256)

Checks if a specific asynchronous nonce has been used by a user to prevent replay attacks.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check nonce usage for
nonce	uint256	Specific nonce value to verify
Return Value
Type	Description
bool	True if the nonce has been used, false if available
getNextFisherDepositNonce
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getNextFisherDepositNonce(address)

Returns the expected nonce for the next Fisher Bridge cross-chain deposit.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check deposit nonce for
Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Next Fisher Bridge deposit nonce
Balance and Staking Functions
getBalance
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getBalance(address,address)

Gets the balance of a specific token for a user stored in the EVVM system.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check balance for
token	address	Token contract address to check
Return Value
Type	Description
uint	Current token balance for the user
isAddressStaker
Function Type: view
Function Signature: isAddressStaker(address)

Checks if an address is registered as a staker with transaction processing privileges and reward eligibility.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check staker status for
Return Value
Type	Description
bool	True if the address is a registered staker
Economic System Functions
getEraPrincipalToken
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getEraPrincipalToken()

Gets the current era token threshold that triggers the next reward halving in the deflationary tokenomics system.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Current era tokens threshold
getRewardAmount
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getRewardAmount()

Gets the current MATE token reward amount distributed to stakers for transaction processing.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Current reward amount in MATE tokens
getPrincipalTokenTotalSupply
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getPrincipalTokenTotalSupply()

Gets the total supply of the principal token (MATE) used for era transition calculations.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Total supply of MATE tokens
Token Management Functions
getWhitelistTokenToBeAdded
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getWhitelistTokenToBeAdded()

Gets the address of the token that is pending whitelist approval after the time delay.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the token prepared for whitelisting (zero if none)
getWhitelistTokenToBeAddedDateToSet
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getWhitelistTokenToBeAddedDateToSet()

Gets the acceptance deadline for pending token whitelist proposals.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Timestamp when pending token can be whitelisted (0 if no pending proposal)
Proxy and Governance Functions
getCurrentImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getCurrentImplementation()

Gets the current active implementation contract address used by the proxy for delegatecalls.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the current implementation contract
getProposalImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getProposalImplementation()

Gets the proposed implementation contract address pending approval for proxy upgrade.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the proposed implementation contract (zero if none)
getTimeToAcceptImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getTimeToAcceptImplementation()

Gets the acceptance deadline for the pending implementation upgrade.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Timestamp when implementation upgrade can be executed (0 if no pending proposal)
Administrative Functions
getCurrentAdmin
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getCurrentAdmin()

Gets the current admin address with administrative privileges over the contract.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the current admin
getProposalAdmin
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getProposalAdmin()

Gets the proposed admin address pending approval for admin privileges.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the proposed admin (zero if no pending proposal)
getTimeToAcceptAdmin
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getTimeToAcceptAdmin()

Gets the acceptance deadline for the pending admin change.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Timestamp when admin change can be executed (0 if no pending proposal)
Usage Examples
Checking User Balance
// Check MATE token balance for a user
uint256 mateBalance = evvm.getBalance(userAddress, mateTokenAddress);

// Check if user is a staker
bool isStaker = evvm.isAddressStaker(userAddress);

Nonce Management
// Get next sync nonce for a user
uint256 nextNonce = evvm.getNextCurrentSyncNonce(userAddress);

// Check if async nonce is used
bool nonceUsed = evvm.getIfUsedAsyncNonce(userAddress, customNonce);

Token Management Verification
// Check if token is pending whitelist
address pendingToken = evvm.getWhitelistTokenToBeAdded();

// Get deadline for whitelist proposal
uint256 deadline = evvm.getWhitelistTokenToBeAddedDateToSet();


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/AdminFunctions


Administrative Functions
This section covers all administrative functions in the EVVM contract, including system configuration, governance, and access control mechanisms. These functions implement time-delayed governance for critical system changes to ensure security and allow for community review.

Proxy Management Functions
The proxy management functions have been moved to their own dedicated section. See Proxy Management Functions for complete documentation on implementation upgrades and proxy operations.

Initial Setup Functions
_setupNameServiceAndTreasuryAddress
Function Type: external
Function Signature: _setupNameServiceAndTreasuryAddress(address,address)

One-time setup function to configure the NameService and Treasury contract addresses. This function can only be called once due to a breaker flag mechanism for security.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
_nameServiceAddress	address	Address of the deployed NameService contract
_treasuryAddress	address	Address of the deployed Treasury contract
Setup Process
Breaker Validation: Ensures the function can only be called once
NameService Configuration: Sets the NameService contract address for identity resolution
Initial Balance: Provides 10,000 MATE tokens to the NameService contract
Staker Registration: Registers NameService as a privileged staker
Treasury Configuration: Sets the Treasury contract address for balance operations
Security Features
One-Time Execution: Breaker flag prevents multiple calls
Essential Integration: Configures critical system dependencies
Automatic Staking: NameService receives staker privileges automatically
Initial Funding: NameService gets operational balance for fees and operations
Workflow
// Initial state: breakerSetupNameServiceAddress == FLAG_IS_STAKER (0x01)
// After execution: breakerSetupNameServiceAddress == 0x00 (prevents re-execution)

evvm._setupNameServiceAndTreasuryAddress(nameServiceAddr, treasuryAddr);

Admin Management Functions
The contract implements time-delayed admin transfers with a 1-day security period.

proposeAdmin
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: proposeAdmin(address)

Proposes a new admin address with a 1-day time delay for security.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
_newOwner	address	Address of the proposed new admin
Security Features
1-day time delay: Shorter than implementation upgrades but provides safety
Non-zero validation: Prevents setting admin to zero address
Self-assignment prevention: Cannot propose current admin as new admin
Admin-only access: Only current admin can propose changes
Workflow
Current admin proposes a new admin address
System sets acceptance deadline (current time + 1 day)
Proposed admin must accept the role after the time delay
Current admin can cancel the proposal if needed
rejectProposalAdmin
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: rejectProposalAdmin()

Cancels a pending admin change proposal.

Security Features
Admin-only access: Only current admin can reject proposals
Immediate effect: Cancellation takes effect immediately
State cleanup: Clears both proposal address and acceptance deadline
acceptAdmin
Function Type: external
Function Signature: acceptAdmin()

Allows the proposed admin to accept the admin role after the time delay.

Security Features
Time delay enforcement: Can only be called after the acceptance deadline
Proposed admin only: Only the proposed admin can call this function
Two-step process: Requires both proposal and acceptance for security
Workflow
Verifies that the current timestamp exceeds the acceptance deadline
Verifies that the caller is the proposed admin
Updates the current admin to the proposed admin
Clears the proposal state
NameService Integration
setNameServiceAddress
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: setNameServiceAddress(address)

Updates the NameService contract address for identity resolution.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
_nameServiceAddress	address	Address of the new NameService contract
Security Features
Admin-only access: Only admin can change NameService integration
Immediate effect: Change takes effect immediately
Critical integration: Affects identity resolution in payments
Use Cases
Upgrading to a new NameService contract version
Switching to a different identity resolution system
Fixing integration issues with the current NameService
Usage Examples
Admin Transfer Process
// 1. Current admin proposes new admin
evvm.proposeAdmin(newAdminAddress);

// 2. Wait 1 day

// 3. Proposed admin accepts the role
// (must be called by the proposed admin)
evvm.acceptAdmin();

Security Considerations
Time Delays
Admin changes: 1-day delay for administrative control
Access Control
All administrative functions require onlyAdmin modifier
Two-step process for admin transfers prevents accidental loss of control
Cancellation mechanisms allow recovery from erroneous proposals
State Management
Admin proposals can only be executed after time delays
State is properly cleaned up after execution or cancellation
Clear proposal and acceptance process prevents confusion



https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/IdentityResolution



Identity Resolution Functions
The EVVM contract integrates with the NameService to provide identity-based payment functionality, allowing users to send payments to human-readable usernames instead of complex addresses. This section covers the identity resolution system and NameService integration.

NameService Integration
The EVVM contract uses the NameService to resolve usernames to wallet addresses, enabling user-friendly payment experiences while maintaining the security of blockchain addresses.

Identity Resolution Process
When a payment includes a to_identity parameter, the EVVM contract performs the following resolution process:

Identity Validation: Checks if the provided identity exists in the NameService
Strict Verification: Ensures the identity is properly registered and active
Address Resolution: Retrieves the wallet address associated with the identity
Payment Processing: Executes the payment to the resolved address
NameService Functions Used
The EVVM contract utilizes several NameService functions for identity resolution:

verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity
Function Purpose: Strict identity verification with address resolution
Usage Context: Primary method for secure identity-to-address conversion

address recipient = NameService(nameServiceAddress)
    .verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity(to_identity);

Security Features:

Performs comprehensive validation of identity status
Ensures identity is not expired or suspended
Returns the current owner address
Reverts if identity is invalid or inactive
strictVerifyIfIdentityExist
Function Purpose: Checks identity existence without address resolution
Usage Context: Used in batch operations for efficiency

bool exists = NameService(nameServiceAddress)
    .strictVerifyIfIdentityExist(to_identity);

Use Cases:

Batch payment validation before processing
Efficient existence checks in dispersePay operations
Pre-validation in multi-recipient transactions
getOwnerOfIdentity
Function Purpose: Retrieves address associated with an identity
Usage Context: Used after existence verification

address owner = NameService(nameServiceAddress)
    .getOwnerOfIdentity(to_identity);

Security Note: Should only be used after confirming identity existence with strictVerifyIfIdentityExist.

Identity Resolution in Payment Functions
Single Payment Functions
In the unified pay function, identity resolution follows this pattern:

address to = !Strings.equal(to_identity, "")
    ? NameService(nameServiceAddress).verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity(to_identity)
    : to_address;

Logic Flow:

Check if to_identity is provided (not empty string)
If identity provided: Use verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity for secure resolution
If identity empty: Use the provided to_address directly
Proceed with payment to the resolved address
Batch Payment Functions
In payMultiple, each payment in the batch undergoes individual identity resolution:

to_aux = !Strings.equal(payData[iteration].to_identity, "")
    ? NameService(nameServiceAddress).verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity(
        payData[iteration].to_identity
    )
    : payData[iteration].to_address;

Benefits:

Each payment can use different resolution methods (identity or address)
Failed identity resolution only affects individual payments in the batch
Maintains security across all payments in the batch
Disperse Payment Functions
In dispersePay, the resolution process is optimized for efficiency:

if (!Strings.equal(toData[i].to_identity, "")) {
    if (NameService(nameServiceAddress).strictVerifyIfIdentityExist(
        toData[i].to_identity
    )) {
        to_aux = NameService(nameServiceAddress).getOwnerOfIdentity(
            toData[i].to_identity
        );
    }
} else {
    to_aux = toData[i].to_address;
}

Optimization Features:

Two-step verification for better error handling
Continues processing even if some identities are invalid
Efficient batch processing of multiple recipients
NameService Configuration
Setup Process
The NameService integration is configured during contract deployment and setup:

Initial Setup
function _setupNameServiceAddress(address _nameServiceAddress) external {
    if (breakerSetupNameServiceAddress == 0x00) {
        revert();
    }
    nameServiceAddress = _nameServiceAddress;
    balances[nameServiceAddress][evvmMetadata.principalTokenAddress] = 
        10000 * 10 ** 18;
    stakerList[nameServiceAddress] = FLAG_IS_STAKER;
}

Setup Features:

One-time configuration with breaker flag protection
Provides initial MATE token balance (10,000 MATE) to NameService
Registers NameService as a privileged staker
Prevents multiple setup calls for security
Administrative Updates
function setNameServiceAddress(address _nameServiceAddress) external onlyAdmin {
    nameServiceAddress = _nameServiceAddress;
}

Administrative Control:

Admin can update NameService address if needed
Immediate effect for operational flexibility
Used for upgrades or integration changes
Security Considerations
Identity Validation
Strict Verification: Always use verifyStrictAndGetOwnerOfIdentity for secure resolution
Existence Checks: Verify identity exists before attempting resolution
Error Handling: Proper handling of invalid or expired identities
Fallback Mechanism: Support both identity and direct address payments
Attack Vectors
Identity Spoofing
Protection: NameService handles identity uniqueness and ownership
Validation: Strict verification prevents unauthorized identity use
Resolution: Only valid, active identities can be resolved
Identity Expiration
Handling: Expired identities fail strict verification
Fallback: Users can always use direct addresses
Notification: Clear error messages for resolution failures
Service Disruption
Resilience: Direct address payments remain available
Isolation: NameService issues don't affect address-based payments
Recovery: Admin can update NameService address if needed
Best Practices
For Users
Verify Identity: Ensure the identity you're paying to is correct and active
Fallback Option: Keep recipient addresses as backup for critical payments
Recent Validation: Verify identity ownership before large payments
For Developers
Error Handling: Implement proper error handling for identity resolution failures
Validation: Always validate identity format before attempting resolution
Caching: Consider caching resolved addresses for frequently used identities
User Experience: Provide clear feedback for identity resolution status
For Integrators
Dual Support: Support both identity and address-based payments
Validation UI: Provide real-time identity validation in user interfaces
Error Messages: Display helpful error messages for resolution failures
Address Display: Show resolved addresses to users for confirmation
Usage Examples
Identity-Based Payment
// Payment using identity
evvm.pay(
    senderAddress,
    address(0),          // Empty address
    "alice.mate",        // Identity to resolve
    tokenAddress,
    amount,
    priorityFee,
    nonce,
    priorityFlag,        // async/sync flag
    executor,
    signature
);

Address-Based Payment
// Payment using direct address
evvm.pay(
    senderAddress,
    recipientAddress,    // Direct address
    "",                  // Empty identity
    tokenAddress,
    amount,
    priorityFee,
    executor,
    signature
);

Mixed Batch Payment
PayData[] memory payments = new PayData[](2);

// Payment 1: Using identity
payments[0] = PayData({
    from: sender,
    to_address: address(0),
    to_identity: "alice.mate",
    token: tokenAddress,
    amount: amount1,
    // ... other fields
});

// Payment 2: Using direct address  
payments[1] = PayData({
    from: sender,
    to_address: recipientAddress,
    to_identity: "",
    token: tokenAddress,
    amount: amount2,
    // ... other fields
});

evvm.payMultiple(payments);

Integration Benefits
User Experience
Human-Readable: Users can send payments to memorable usernames
Error Reduction: Reduces address copy-paste errors
Social Integration: Enables social payment features
Developer Benefits
Abstraction: Simplifies address management in applications
Flexibility: Supports both traditional and identity-based payments
Future-Proof: Easy integration with identity evolution
Ecosystem Benefits
Adoption: Lowers barriers to blockchain payment adoption
Integration: Enables rich social and identity features
Standardization: Provides consistent identity resolution across services

https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/EconomicSystem


Economic System Functions
The EVVM ecosystem implements a sophisticated economic system with deflationary tokenomics, reward distribution, and era-based transitions. This section covers the economic functions that manage token supply, rewards, and the evolution of the system's monetary policy.

Token Economics Overview
The EVVM economic system is built around the MATE token with several key features:

Deflationary Mechanism: Reward halving through era transitions
Staker Incentives: Enhanced rewards for network participants
Random Bonuses: Lottery-style rewards for era transition triggers
Supply Management: Controlled token distribution and burning
Era Transition System
recalculateReward
Function Type: public
Function Signature: recalculateReward()

Triggers a reward recalculation and era transition in the token economy when the total supply exceeds the current era threshold.

Era Transition Mechanism
The function implements a deflationary system where:

Threshold Check: Activates when totalSupply > eraTokens
Era Adjustment: Moves half of remaining tokens to next era threshold
Reward Halving: Cuts base reward amount in half for future transactions
Bonus Distribution: Provides random MATE bonus to the caller (1-5083x reward)
Economic Formula
// Era threshold update
evvmMetadata.eraTokens += ((evvmMetadata.totalSupply - evvmMetadata.eraTokens) / 2);

// Random bonus calculation
uint256 bonus = evvmMetadata.reward * getRandom(1, 5083);

// Reward halving
evvmMetadata.reward = evvmMetadata.reward / 2;

Economic Impact
Scarcity Creation: Era thresholds become progressively harder to reach
Inflation Reduction: Reward halving reduces token inflation over time
Early Incentive: Higher rewards for early ecosystem participation
Random Incentive: Lottery mechanism for era transition triggering
Workflow
Eligibility Check: Verifies total supply exceeds current era tokens threshold
Era Calculation: Updates era threshold by adding half the excess supply
Bonus Award: Grants random MATE bonus (1-5083x base reward) to caller
Reward Halving: Reduces base reward for all future transactions
State Update: Updates metadata to reflect new economic parameters
Access Control
Public Function: Anyone can trigger when conditions are met
Conditional Execution: Only works when total supply exceeds era threshold
Single Execution: Each era transition can only occur once per threshold
getRandom
Function Type: internal view
Function Signature: getRandom(uint256,uint256)

Generates pseudo-random numbers for era transition bonuses and other system randomness needs.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
min	uint256	Minimum value (inclusive)
max	uint256	Maximum value (inclusive)
Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Random number between min and max (inclusive)
Randomness Source
return min + (uint256(
    keccak256(abi.encodePacked(block.timestamp, block.prevrandao))
) % (max - min + 1));

Components:

block.timestamp: Current block timestamp for variability
block.prevrandao: Validator randomness from consensus layer
Keccak256 Hashing: Cryptographic mixing of randomness sources
Modulo Operation: Maps to desired range
Security Considerations
Non-Critical Randomness: Suitable for reward bonuses and incentives
Predictability: Not suitable for high-stakes applications
Manipulation Resistance: Difficult to manipulate but not impossible
Block-Based: Updates with each new block
Reward Distribution System
_giveReward
Function Type: internal
Function Signature: _giveReward(address,uint256)

Internal function that distributes MATE token rewards to stakers for transaction processing and network participation.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address of the staker to receive rewards
amount	uint256	Number of transactions or reward multiplier
Return Value
Type	Description
bool	True if reward distribution completed successfully
Reward Calculation
uint256 principalReward = evvmMetadata.reward * amount;
balances[user][evvmMetadata.principalTokenAddress] += principalReward;

Formula:

Total Reward = Base Reward × Transaction Count
Base Reward: Current system reward amount (halves with each era)
Transaction Count: Number of successful operations processed
Use Cases
Single Payments: 1x reward for processing individual payments
Batch Payments: Multiple rewards based on successful transaction count
Bridge Operations: Rewards for Fisher Bridge processing
Contract Operations: Rewards for automated system operations
Integration Points
The reward system is integrated throughout EVVM functions:

// Single payment reward
_giveReward(msg.sender, 1);

// Batch payment reward
_giveReward(msg.sender, successfulTransactions);

// Bridge operation reward  
_giveReward(msg.sender, 1);

Economic State Functions
Token Supply Management
getPrincipalTokenTotalSupply
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getPrincipalTokenTotalSupply()

Returns the current total supply of MATE tokens used for era transition calculations.

getEraPrincipalToken
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getEraPrincipalToken()

Returns the current era token threshold that triggers the next reward halving event.

getRewardAmount
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getRewardAmount()

Returns the current base reward amount distributed to stakers for transaction processing.

Economic Metadata
getEvvmMetadata
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getEvvmMetadata()

Returns the complete economic configuration including token addresses, rewards, supply data, and era thresholds.

Economic Scenarios
Era Transition Example
Consider the following economic state:

Initial State:
- Total Supply: 1,000,000 MATE
- Era Tokens: 800,000 MATE  
- Base Reward: 100 MATE
- Excess Supply: 200,000 MATE (1,000,000 - 800,000)

After Era Transition:
- Era Tokens: 900,000 MATE (800,000 + 200,000/2)
- Base Reward: 50 MATE (100/2)
- Caller Bonus: 50-254,150 MATE (50 * random(1,5083))
- Next Threshold: 900,000 MATE

Reward Halving Impact
Era	Base Reward	Era Threshold	Economic Phase
1	100 MATE	1M MATE	High Inflation
2	50 MATE	~1.5M MATE	Moderate Inflation
3	25 MATE	~2M MATE	Low Inflation
4	12.5 MATE	~2.5M MATE	Deflationary
5	6.25 MATE	~3M MATE	Ultra Deflationary
Staker Economics
Transaction Processing Rewards
Operation Type	Base Reward	Additional Benefits
Single Payment	1x reward	Priority fees
Batch Payment	Nx reward	Priority fees
Bridge Operation	1x reward	Bridge fees
Contract Operation	1x reward	Service fees
Era Transition Bonuses
Random bonus multipliers for triggering era transitions:

Minimum Bonus: 1x base reward
Maximum Bonus: 5083x base reward
Average Bonus: ~2542x base reward
Expected Value: Significant incentive for monitoring
Economic Security
Inflation Control
Automatic Halving: Reduces inflation with each era transition
Supply Caps: Era thresholds create natural supply limits
Staker Distribution: Rewards distributed to active participants only
Economic Attacks
Era Manipulation
Attack Vector: Attempting to manipulate era transition timing
Protection: Public function allows anyone to trigger when eligible
Mitigation: Random bonuses reduce predictable profit
Reward Farming
Attack Vector: Gaming the reward system for excessive tokens
Protection: Staker-only rewards and transaction validation
Mitigation: Legitimate transaction processing required
Supply Inflation
Attack Vector: Excessive reward distribution inflating supply
Protection: Automatic halving mechanism reduces rewards over time
Mitigation: Era thresholds become progressively harder to reach
Integration Guidelines
For Stakers
Monitor Era Progress: Track total supply approaching era thresholds
Trigger Transitions: Call recalculateReward() when eligible for bonuses
Optimize Processing: Focus on high-volume periods for maximum rewards
Long-term Planning: Understand reward reduction trajectory
For Developers
Reward Integration: Properly integrate _giveReward() in new functions
Economic Queries: Use getter functions for economic state information
Era Monitoring: Build tools to track era transition progress
Reward Calculation: Account for changing reward amounts in projections
For Users
Understand Economics: Learn how era transitions affect system costs
Timing Strategies: Consider era transitions when planning large operations
Staker Benefits: Understand advantages of becoming a staker
Long-term Value: Recognize deflationary nature of tokenomics
Economic Monitoring
Key Metrics
Total Supply Growth: Rate of MATE token creation
Era Progression: Distance to next era transition
Reward Efficiency: Rewards per transaction over time
Staker Participation: Number of active reward recipients
Health Indicators
Inflation Rate: Current rate of token supply growth
Era Transition Frequency: How often transitions occur
Reward Distribution: Concentration of rewards among stakers
Economic Activity: Transaction volume and reward generation
Future Economic Evolution
Predicted Trajectory
As the system matures:

Early Growth: High rewards attract initial stakers and users
Expansion Phase: Increased adoption drives era transitions
Maturation: Slower era transitions as thresholds become harder
Stability: Ultra-low inflation creates stable economic environment
Sustainability: System reaches long-term sustainable reward levels
Adaptation Mechanisms
Community Governance: Future economic parameter adjustments
Market Forces: Natural balance between rewards and participation
Technical Evolution: New features may introduce economic innovations
Cross-Chain Integration: Economic effects of multi-chain expansion

https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/StakingIntegration


Staking Integration Functions
The EVVM contract integrates closely with the staking system to manage staker status, privileges, and rewards. This integration enables enhanced functionality for MATE token stakers while maintaining secure access control and reward distribution.

Staking System Overview
The EVVM staking integration provides:

Staker Status Management: Control over who can earn staking rewards
Enhanced Privileges: Special access to staker-only functions
Reward Distribution: Integrated MATE token rewards for stakers
Cross-Contract Communication: Secure integration with staking contract
Staker Status Functions
pointStaker
Function Type: public
Function Signature: pointStaker(address,bytes1)

Updates staker status for a user address, controlling access to staking privileges and rewards.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to update staker status for
answer	bytes1	Flag indicating staker status/type
Access Control
if (msg.sender != stakingContractAddress) {
    revert();
}

Security Features:

Staking Contract Only: Only the authorized staking contract can call this function
Centralized Control: Ensures staker status changes are properly authorized
Integration Security: Prevents unauthorized staker privilege escalation
Staker Status Values
The answer parameter uses standardized flag values:

Value	Meaning	Description
FLAG_IS_STAKER	Active Staker	User has staking privileges
0x00	Non-Staker	User has no staking privileges
Other values	Custom Status	Future staker types or special status
Integration Flow
Staking Contract Event: User stakes or unstakes MATE tokens
Status Update: Staking contract calls pointStaker() to update status
EVVM Update: User's staker status is updated in EVVM contract
Privilege Changes: User gains/loses automatic staker benefits when executing payments
isAddressStaker
Function Type: view
Function Signature: isAddressStaker(address)

Checks if an address is registered as an active staker with transaction processing privileges.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
user	address	Address to check staker status for
Return Value
Type	Description
bool	True if the address is a registered staker
Implementation
function isAddressStaker(address user) public view returns (bool) {
    return stakerList[user] == FLAG_IS_STAKER;
}

Validation Logic:

Checks if user's status equals the active staker flag
Returns boolean for easy integration in other functions
Used throughout EVVM for privilege verification
Staker Privileges
Enhanced Payment Processing
Stakers receive special privileges in payment processing functions:

Staker Payment Benefits
Automatic Detection: The pay function automatically detects if executor is a staker
Enhanced Rewards: Staker executors receive MATE token rewards for processing
Priority Fees: Staker executors collect priority fees from users
Batch Processing: Special rewards for batch payment processing
Privilege Detection
if (isAddressStaker(msg.sender)) {
    // Staker gets priority fee and rewards
    if (priorityFee > 0) {
        if (!_updateBalance(from, msg.sender, token, priorityFee))
            revert ErrorsLib.UpdateBalanceFailed();
    }
    _giveReward(msg.sender, 1);
}

This automatic detection is used in:

pay (unified payment function)
payMultiple (for enhanced rewards)
dispersePay (single-source multi-recipient)
Bridge operations
Reward System Integration
Standard Rewards
Stakers receive base MATE rewards for transaction processing:

_giveReward(msg.sender, 1);  // Single transaction reward

Batch Rewards
Enhanced rewards for batch processing:

_giveReward(msg.sender, successfulTransactions);  // Multiple transaction rewards

Bridge Rewards
Special rewards for Fisher Bridge operations:

balances[msg.sender][evvmMetadata.principalTokenAddress] += evvmMetadata.reward;

Contract Integration
Staking Contract Address
getStakingContractAddress
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getStakingContractAddress()

Returns the authorized staking contract address that can modify staker status.

Setup and Configuration
The staking contract address is set during EVVM deployment:

constructor(
    address _initialOwner,
    address _stakingContractAddress,
    EvvmMetadata memory _evvmMetadata
) {
    stakingContractAddress = _stakingContractAddress;
    // Initial MATE token allocation to staking contract
    balances[_stakingContractAddress][evvmMetadata.principalTokenAddress] = 
        getRewardAmount() * 2;
    // Register staking contract as staker
    stakerList[_stakingContractAddress] = FLAG_IS_STAKER;
}

Initial Setup Features:

Address Registration: Sets authorized staking contract
Initial Funding: Provides MATE tokens for reward distribution
Staker Status: Grants staking contract staker privileges
Integration Ready: Prepares for cross-contract communication
Cross-Contract Communication
Staking Contract → EVVM
When users stake or unstake tokens:

User Action: Stakes/unstakes MATE tokens in staking contract
Status Calculation: Staking contract determines new staker status
EVVM Update: Staking contract calls pointStaker() to update status
Privilege Change: User gains/loses staker privileges in EVVM
EVVM → Staking Contract
EVVM provides reward distribution to the staking contract:

Initial Allocation: MATE tokens provided during deployment
Ongoing Rewards: System generates rewards for distribution
Contract Balance: Staking contract maintains MATE balance for rewards
Staker Economics
Cost-Benefit Analysis
Staking Requirements
To become a staker, users typically need to:

Stake MATE Tokens: Lock tokens in staking contract
Maintain Balance: Keep minimum staking requirements
Active Participation: Process transactions to earn rewards
Network Contribution: Provide validation and processing services
Staker Benefits
Benefit Type	Description	Value
MATE Rewards	Base rewards for transaction processing	Variable (era-based)
Priority Fees	User-paid fees for transaction processing	Market-determined
Bridge Fees	Fees from Fisher Bridge operations	User-paid + MATE rewards
Enhanced Access	Access to staker-only functions	Exclusive privileges
Network Influence	Participation in network validation	Governance potential
Reward Calculations
Single Transaction Rewards
// Base MATE reward
uint256 baseReward = evvmMetadata.reward;

// Priority fee (if applicable)
uint256 priorityFee = userSpecifiedFee;

// Total earnings = Base reward + Priority fee
uint256 totalEarnings = baseReward + priorityFee;

Batch Transaction Rewards
// Multiple base rewards
uint256 totalRewards = evvmMetadata.reward * successfulTransactions;

// Multiple priority fees (if applicable)
uint256 totalFees = sum(individualPriorityFees);

// Total earnings = Multiple rewards + Total fees
uint256 totalEarnings = totalRewards + totalFees;

Integration Best Practices
For Staking Contract Developers
Secure Integration
Address Validation: Ensure EVVM contract address is correct
Access Control: Properly restrict who can trigger status updates
Error Handling: Handle EVVM contract failures gracefully
State Synchronization: Keep staking and EVVM status in sync
Status Management
// Example staking contract integration
function updateStakerStatus(address user) internal {
    if (isUserStaker(user)) {
        IEvvm(evvmAddress).pointStaker(user, FLAG_IS_STAKER);
    } else {
        IEvvm(evvmAddress).pointStaker(user, 0x00);
    }
}

For EVVM Integrators
Staker Verification
Always verify staker status before granting privileges:

function privilegedFunction() external {
    require(evvm.isAddressStaker(msg.sender), "Not a staker");
    // Privileged functionality here
}

Reward Distribution
Properly integrate reward distribution:

function processTransaction() external {
    // Transaction processing logic
    
    if (evvm.isAddressStaker(msg.sender)) {
        // Grant rewards through EVVM internal function
        // This is handled automatically by EVVM functions
    }
}

For Users
Becoming a Staker
Research Requirements: Understand staking token requirements
Evaluate Economics: Calculate potential rewards vs. staking costs
Stake Tokens: Follow staking contract procedures
Verify Status: Confirm staker status in EVVM using isAddressStaker()
Start Processing: Begin earning rewards through transaction processing
Maintaining Staker Status
Monitor Requirements: Keep track of minimum staking requirements
Stay Active: Regularly process transactions to earn rewards
Manage Rewards: Properly handle earned MATE tokens and fees
Update Status: Ensure status remains synchronized across contracts
Security Considerations
Access Control
Staking Contract Security
Single Authority: Only one contract can update staker status
Address Verification: Staking contract address must be validated
Function Restrictions: pointStaker() is restricted to staking contract only
Status Manipulation Prevention
Centralized Control: Prevents unauthorized staker privilege escalation
Contract-Only Updates: EOAs cannot directly modify staker status
Synchronization: Status changes must originate from staking contract
Integration Risks
Contract Upgrade Risks
Address Changes: Staking contract upgrades may require EVVM updates
Interface Changes: Modified interfaces may break integration
State Migration: Status synchronization during upgrades
Failure Scenarios
Staking Contract Failure: EVVM continues operating with existing staker status
Communication Failure: Status updates may be delayed or lost
Network Issues: Cross-contract calls may fail during network congestion
Monitoring and Maintenance
Health Indicators
Integration Health
Status Synchronization: Staking contract and EVVM status alignment
Update Frequency: Rate of staker status changes
Reward Distribution: Proper MATE reward allocation
Cross-Contract Calls: Success rate of pointStaker() calls
System Metrics
Active Stakers: Number of addresses with staker status
Reward Volume: Total MATE rewards distributed to stakers
Transaction Processing: Volume of staker-processed transactions
Integration Errors: Failed cross-contract communications
Troubleshooting
Common Issues
Status Sync Failure

Check staking contract integration
Verify EVVM contract address in staking contract
Review recent staker status changes
Reward Distribution Issues

Verify staker status using isAddressStaker()
Check MATE token balances
Review transaction processing logs
Integration Breaks

Validate contract addresses
Check interface compatibility
Review access control configurations
Future Integration Enhancements
Planned Features
Multi-Tier Staking: Different staker levels with varying privileges
Governance Integration: Staker voting rights in system governance
Cross-Chain Staking: Staking integration across multiple chains
Advanced Rewards: More sophisticated reward calculation mechanisms
Extensibility
The current integration design supports:

Multiple Staker Types: Using different flag values in pointStaker()
Enhanced Privileges: New functions can easily check staker status
Reward Evolution: Flexible reward system can accommodate changes
Protocol Evolution: Integration can adapt to new staking mechanisms


https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/ProxyManagement

Proxy Management Functions
The EVVM contract uses a sophisticated proxy pattern with time-delayed upgrades to ensure security and allow for community review of critical system changes. This section covers all proxy-related functions for implementation management.

Proxy Pattern Overview
The EVVM contract implements an upgradeable proxy pattern with the following security features:

Time-Delayed Upgrades: 30-day delay for implementation changes
Community Review: Extended time for security audits and community validation
Admin Control: Only authorized admin can propose and execute upgrades
Cancellation Mechanism: Ability to reject proposed upgrades before execution
Fallback Delegation: Automatic delegation to current implementation
Implementation Management Functions
proposeImplementation
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: proposeImplementation(address)

Proposes a new implementation contract for the proxy with a mandatory 30-day time delay for security.

Input Parameters
Parameter	Type	Description
_newImpl	address	Address of the new implementation contract
Security Features
30-day time delay: Allows comprehensive community review and validation
Admin-only access: Only current admin can propose upgrades
Single proposal: Only one implementation proposal can be pending at a time
Cancellable: Can be rejected using rejectUpgrade() before deadline
Workflow
Admin Proposal: Admin calls proposeImplementation() with new implementation address
Deadline Setting: System sets acceptance deadline (current timestamp + 30 days)
Community Review: 30-day period for security audits and community validation
Optional Cancellation: Admin can cancel using rejectUpgrade() if issues are found
Execution: After 30 days, admin can execute upgrade using acceptImplementation()
Implementation
function proposeImplementation(address _newImpl) external onlyAdmin {
    proposalImplementation = _newImpl;
    timeToAcceptImplementation = block.timestamp + 30 days;
}

rejectUpgrade
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: rejectUpgrade()

Cancels a pending implementation upgrade proposal before the time delay expires.

Security Features
Admin-only access: Only current admin can reject upgrades
Immediate effect: Cancellation takes effect immediately
Complete reset: Clears both proposal address and acceptance deadline
Emergency mechanism: Allows quick response to discovered security issues
Use Cases
Security Issues: Community or auditors identify problems in proposed implementation
Better Alternative: Superior implementation becomes available during review period
Administrative Decision: Admin decides to withdraw the upgrade proposal
Emergency Response: Quick cancellation of problematic proposals
Implementation
function rejectUpgrade() external onlyAdmin {
    proposalImplementation = address(0);
    timeToAcceptImplementation = 0;
}

acceptImplementation
Function Type: external onlyAdmin
Function Signature: acceptImplementation()

Executes a pending implementation upgrade after the mandatory 30-day time delay has passed.

Security Features
Time delay enforcement: Cannot be called before the acceptance deadline
Admin-only access: Only current admin can execute upgrades
Automatic cleanup: Clears proposal data after successful upgrade
Atomic execution: Implementation change happens atomically
Execution Requirements
Valid Proposal: Must have a pending implementation proposal
Time Elapsed: Current timestamp must exceed the acceptance deadline
Admin Authorization: Must be called by the current admin
Clean State: Proposal state is cleared after execution
Workflow
Deadline Verification: Confirms that 30 days have passed since proposal
Implementation Update: Sets current implementation to proposed implementation
State Cleanup: Clears proposal implementation and acceptance deadline
Proxy Activation: New implementation becomes active for all delegatecalls
Implementation
function acceptImplementation() external onlyAdmin {
    if (block.timestamp < timeToAcceptImplementation) revert();
    currentImplementation = proposalImplementation;
    proposalImplementation = address(0);
    timeToAcceptImplementation = 0;
}

Proxy Query Functions
getCurrentImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getCurrentImplementation()

Gets the current active implementation contract address used by the proxy for delegatecalls.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the current implementation contract
Use Cases
Integration Verification: Confirm which implementation is currently active
Debugging: Identify implementation during troubleshooting
Monitoring: Track implementation changes over time
Interface Detection: Determine available functions in current implementation
getProposalImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getProposalImplementation()

Gets the proposed implementation contract address that is pending approval for proxy upgrade.

Return Value
Type	Description
address	Address of the proposed implementation contract (zero if none)
Use Cases
Proposal Monitoring: Track pending implementation upgrades
Community Review: Allow community to examine proposed implementations
Security Analysis: Enable security audits of pending upgrades
Decision Making: Provide information for upgrade approval decisions
getTimeToAcceptImplementation
Function Type: view
Function Signature: getTimeToAcceptImplementation()

Gets the acceptance deadline for the pending implementation upgrade.

Return Value
Type	Description
uint256	Timestamp when implementation upgrade can be executed (0 if no pending proposal)
Use Cases
Timing Information: Know when upgrade can be executed
Countdown Tracking: Monitor time remaining in review period
Automation: Enable automated execution after deadline
Planning: Schedule upgrade execution and related activities
Fallback Mechanism
Delegatecall Fallback
The EVVM contract implements a sophisticated fallback function that automatically delegates calls to the current implementation:

fallback() external {
    if (currentImplementation == address(0)) revert();

    assembly {
        // Copy the entire calldata
        calldatacopy(0, 0, calldatasize())

        // Delegatecall to implementation
        let result := delegatecall(
            gas(), 
            sload(currentImplementation.slot), 
            0, 
            calldatasize(), 
            0, 
            0
        )

        // Copy the return data
        returndatacopy(0, 0, returndatasize())

        // Handle the result
        switch result
        case 0 {
            revert(0, returndatasize()) // Forward revert
        }
        default {
            return(0, returndatasize()) // Forward return
        }
    }
}

Fallback Features
Automatic Delegation: Routes unknown function calls to current implementation
Gas Forwarding: Passes all available gas to implementation
Data Preservation: Maintains exact calldata and return data
Error Forwarding: Properly forwards reverts and error messages
Security Check: Reverts if no implementation is set
Security Considerations
Upgrade Security
Time Delay Benefits
Community Review: 30 days allows thorough security analysis
Vulnerability Discovery: Extended time for finding implementation bugs
Social Consensus: Time for community discussion and consensus building
Emergency Response: Ability to cancel upgrades if issues are found
Access Control
Admin-Only Operations: All proxy management restricted to admin
Single Point of Control: Centralized but time-delayed upgrade authority
Proposal Validation: Admin can review proposals before execution
Emergency Cancellation: Quick response capability for security issues
Attack Vectors
Malicious Implementation
Protection: 30-day review period allows security analysis
Mitigation: Community can identify malicious code before execution
Response: Admin can cancel malicious proposals using rejectUpgrade()
Admin Compromise
Risk: Compromised admin could propose malicious implementations
Mitigation: 30-day delay provides time to detect compromise
Response: Community alert systems and emergency procedures
Implementation Bugs
Risk: New implementations may contain bugs or vulnerabilities
Mitigation: Extended review period and testing requirements
Response: Cancel upgrade and deploy fixed implementation
Integration Guidelines
For Developers
Monitoring Upgrades
// Check for pending upgrades
address pendingImpl = evvm.getProposalImplementation();
uint256 deadline = evvm.getTimeToAcceptImplementation();

if (pendingImpl != address(0)) {
    // Upgrade is pending - analyze and prepare
    uint256 timeRemaining = deadline - block.timestamp;
    // Implement monitoring and preparation logic
}

Implementation Development
Security First: Prioritize security in implementation development
Comprehensive Testing: Extensive testing before proposal
Community Engagement: Engage community during development
Documentation: Provide detailed upgrade documentation
For Community
Review Process
Code Analysis: Examine proposed implementation code
Security Audit: Conduct or review security audits
Testing: Participate in testnet validation
Feedback: Provide feedback during review period
Monitoring Tools
Implementation Tracking: Monitor current and proposed implementations
Deadline Alerts: Set up notifications for upgrade deadlines
Change Analysis: Analyze differences between implementations
Community Discussion: Participate in upgrade discussions
Best Practices
Upgrade Planning
Thorough Testing: Comprehensive testing on testnets
Security Audits: Professional security audits before proposal
Community Engagement: Early community involvement and feedback
Documentation: Complete documentation of changes and rationale
Emergency Procedures: Clear procedures for upgrade cancellation
Operational Security
Admin Key Security: Secure storage and management of admin keys
Monitoring Systems: Automated monitoring of upgrade proposals
Response Procedures: Defined procedures for security issues
Community Coordination: Clear communication channels with community
Development Lifecycle
Design Phase: Community input on upgrade requirements
Development Phase: Transparent development with regular updates
Testing Phase: Comprehensive testing including security testing
Review Phase: Community review and feedback incorporation
Deployment Phase: Careful execution with monitoring

https://www.evvm.info/docs/EVVM/TreasuryFunctions


Treasury Functions
The EVVM contract includes specialized functions that can only be called by the authorized Treasury contract. These functions provide controlled access to user balance management for treasury operations such as deposits, withdrawals, and automated distributions.

Treasury Authorization Required
These functions will revert with SenderIsNotTreasury() if called by any address other than the authorized treasury contract.

addAmountToUser
Function Type: external
Function Signature: addAmountToUser(address,address,uint256)

Adds tokens to a user's balance in the EVVM system. This function is used by the treasury for deposit operations and reward distributions.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
user	address	Address of the user to receive the balance
token	address	Address of the token contract
amount	uint256	Amount of tokens to add to the user's balance
Workflow
Authorization Check: Validates that msg.sender is the authorized treasury contract, reverts with SenderIsNotTreasury() if unauthorized
Balance Update: Directly adds the specified amount to balances[user][token] mapping
Immediate Effect: Balance change takes effect immediately within the EVVM system
removeAmountFromUser
Function Type: external
Function Signature: removeAmountFromUser(address,address,uint256)

Removes tokens from a user's balance in the EVVM system. This function is used by the treasury for withdrawal operations and fee deductions.

Parameters
Field	Type	Description
user	address	Address of the user to remove balance from
token	address	Address of the token contract
amount	uint256	Amount of tokens to remove from the user's balance
Workflow
Authorization Check: Validates that msg.sender is the authorized treasury contract, reverts with SenderIsNotTreasury() if unauthorized
Balance Update: Directly subtracts the specified amount from balances[user][token] mapping
Underflow Risk: No underflow protection - treasury must ensure sufficient balance exists (Solidity 0.8+ will revert on underflow)
Immediate Effect: Balance change takes effect immediately within the EVVM system





